They say certain things get better with age, alas, not hangovers. I suppose the easiest thing to do would be to say well, just don't drink in the first place but as well all know, human nature dictates that we don't always listen to our conscience when it comes to doing what's in our best interests.

I would say the biggest asset you have when it comes to hangovers is to avoid the denial stage. Again, it's human nature to kid yourself but at the end of the day, is it really worth it? It's just going to make it that much harder to bear when that headache does eventually kick in and you stand up. Denial is perfectly normal and you may even be moved to utter such words as 'I've dodged the hangover!' How exactly? Did you fool your body into not realising how much booze it was taking in? Get past the initial stage of denial and don't pretend, it's time to face the music and the pain will be more bearable without pretending it isn't there.

Prepare. Once you've accepted the fate that the next day will be a complete horror show, be sure to stock up on the necessary supplies. As your body processes alcohol and it leaves your system you'll feel pretty darn bad, part of this is due to the fact that when the body does process alcohol you'll feel low due to the hard work your liver is doing. Get some natural sugars in your fridge the night before then into your system the day after. Fruit juices, smoothies and fresh veg all boost sugar levels so make sure they're high on your list of hangover priorities. Avoid quick sugar fixes though, having certain fizzy drinks will boost sugar levels but their level of caffeine and colouring will only dehydrate you further. It's all about the natural sugars people.

Exercise. Blow those cobwebs away and get yourself out of the house, or at least on the treadmill at home. I know, nothing sounds worse to a hungover person than the thought of having to face daylight let alone manoeuvre about it in it. However bad the thought of it may seem, staying hydrated and running off last nights drink as well as its memories is a sure fire way to feel better quicker. Let's face it, when you're exhausted, you're too focused on breathing than feeling sorry for yourself.

Hair of the dog. Now, in case you hadn't realised, these are just tips. I am not a medical professional, much to my parents dismay, so please don't take these 'tips' as gospel. Especially this one. Hair of the dog, getting back on it, whatever you want to call is simply saying 'Nope, I can't handle this feeling, let's have a drink.' This is not the most mature or indeed healthy way to look at it, but it is a quick fix. It should be said that there are times when this method is more acceptable than others: Stag do's, vacations, university and break ups all spring to mind. Not so good to do the next day in work.

Whatever your cure and coping technique is, be sure to not lie to yourself and face the music. Not too loudly obviously.

